
EGGO

  EGGO stands for "Examine Great Games Online".  EGGO is an online database
program that facilitates examining and analyzing great games from players such
as Fischer, Kasparov, and Karpov.  Basically, EGGO allows you to examine a
game except that the moves come from EGGO's database, not the chess server. 
Currently, EGGO's database contains about 15000 to 20000 games.  Type "finger
EGGO" for more information.

  In order to use EGGO, send EGGO a command; EGGO then processes the command
and returns the output to you.  See below for a list of commands and their
descriptions.

  EGGO can have only one primary user at a time, meaning only one person at a
time can select the games to be examined.  However, once a game has been
loaded for examination, other users can paticipate in examining and analyzing
the game using the "mexamine" and "observe" features of the chess server.


STARTING EGGO

  First step, type "observe EGGO".  Second step, type "xtell EGGO begin".  If
no other game is being examined, EGGO will make you the examiner -- you will
then be able to examine a game from EGGO's library.  Otherwise, someone else
is listed as EGGO's main examiner and you will only be able to examine that
game for the moment.  If you want someone else to help examine a game with
you, use the "mexamine" command.  When you are finished examining one game and
want to examine another, simply use the examine command.  Lastly, use the
unexamine command in order to leave EGGO.


EGGO'S COMMANDS (list):

     about        examine         help         revert         status
     begin        forward         more         search         who


EGGO'S COMMANDS (descriptions):

  ABOUT

    Usage: xtell eggo about

    If someone is already examining an EGGO's game, this command will display
    information about the game being examined.  This command is also useful
    for knowing EGGO's status.  Anyone can use this command.

  BEGIN

    Usage: xtell eggo begin

    If EGGO is not busy, this command starts an EGGO session.  If EGGO was
    already in use, this command will have no effect.

  EXAMINE

    Usage: xtell eggo examine #

    You may use this command after a successful "xtell eggo search" command.
    For example, "xtell eggo examine 1" will begin examination of game #1 from
    the search output.  You can repeat this command for other games from the
    search output when you are finished examining your current game.  That is,
    you can type "xtell eggo examine #" for the next game; you do not need to
    "unexamine" the other game first.  (Please do not confuse this use of
    examine with the normal "examine" command.)

  FORWARD

    Usage: xtell eggo forward [n]

    When you are already examining an EGGO's game, you can go forward 1 or
    more moves using "xtell EGGO forward [n]".  The default value for 'n'
    is 1.  Currently, you cannot go forward more than 20 moves at one time.

  MORE

    Usage: xtell eggo more

    This command allows you view the results of your search command.  It will
    list the next 20 games in the list (if there are any).  You must be EGGO's
    current user to use this command.

  REVERT

    Usage: xtell eggo revert

    After making your own moves when examining an EGGO's game, you can go back
    to your game's mainline by "xtell eggo revert".  (Please do not confuse
    this command with the normal "revert" command.)

  SEARCH

    Usage: xtell eggo search [player1 {player2} {draw|nodraw}]

    You may use this command after a successful "xtell EGGO begin".  The
    purpose of this command is to search the EGGO game database for games by
    particular players.  "Player1" must be one of the names EGGO recognizes;
    use the "xtell EGGO who" command to see which names EGGO knows.  You can
    use "draw" and "nodraw" to select a game with a particular result; they
    are optional.  

    "Search" alone without arguments will list the results of your previous
    search.  Here are other examples:
      xtell eggo search Capablanca
      xtell eggo search Fischer nodraw
      xtell eggo search Fischer Spassky
      xtell eggo search Kasparov Karpov nodraw
    You can view the results of the search with "xtell EGGO more".

  STATUS

    Usage: xtell eggo status

    This command will display information about EGGO's current status, such as
    whether EGGO is open or closed, and which game (if any) is being examined.

  WHO

    Usage: xtell eggo who

    This command will list all of the "primary" players known to EGGO.  These
    primary players are used in EGGO's search command.  Anyone can use this
    command whether they are EGGO's current user or not.


SPECIAL NOTES:

(a) Since many of the EGGO commands are long, you might want to consider
creating aliases for the commands you will use a lot (such as "xtell EGGO
forward").  Suitable aliases will save you a lot of time as you play through
these games from famous players.

See Also:  alias  examine  mexamine

[Written by Warrior August 18, 1995; last modified: August 21, 1995 -- Friar]

