
ftp_hints

There are many kinds of files for the chess server you may wish to access and
download to your system.  The Internet Chess Library (chess.onenet.net) is an
anonymous FTP archive containing a large amount of chess information and
programs (~200MB).  (See the "inetchesslib" help file.)  Many users of the
chess server download a graphical interface and timeseal (read the
"interfaces" and "timeseal" help files).

There are several ways to access and download these files.  But first, you
need to connect to where the files are located.  There are two main ways to
connect: World Wide Web (www) and file transfer protocol (ftp).  

WWW access would be best and most intuitive.  You can get there using your
favorite Web browser, like Netscape or Mosaic.  The URL address is:

  http://chess.onenet.net/chess

But ftp access is also easy.  This file is about ftp procedures for the chess
server files.


FTP FILE TRANSFER

The most standard command to initiate an ftp connection to the files would be
to initiate a session from your system (not from within the chess server
itself) and at your host's prompt type:
 
     ftp chess.onenet.net
  or ftp 164.58.253.10

[Note: chess.onenet.net and caissa.onenet.net are the same machine currently
so either address will work for now.]

If the ftp command seems to be garbage to your system, you will need to
contact your local systems administrator.

If you connect to the file server, you will see this message on your screen:

  Connected to chess.onenet.net. 
  220 caissa.onenet.net FTP server (Version wu-2.4(1) Tue Oct 11 11:29:11
     1994)
  ready
  Name (your-host.your-domain:your-username):

Type:

  anonymous

You will then see this message:

  331 Guest login ok, send your complete e-mail address as password.
  Password:

Type your email address.

Now you are in and should see the ftp prompt:

  ftp>


LOCATING THE FILES YOU NEED
 
Typing "help" will give you a list of available commands in ftp, but here are
some basics.  All files and directories in the current directory can be seen
with "dir".  Typing "cd" changes directories.  A "/" separates directory names
when specifying directories within directories.

In this example, we will go to the DOS directory.  Type:
 
  cd /pub/chess/DOS
 
or cd DOS    

  (NOTE: users of DELPHI may need to type:   cd "DOS")
 
If you type "dir" you will see all the files and directories in that location. 
There are quite a few.


TRANSFERRING A FILE

In order to transfer a file properly from the ftp site to your computer host,
you need to set the correct transfer mode and use the right commands.  The
files you need for an interface and timeseal need to be transferred using the
"binary" mode.  The "binary" command sets the transfer mode to binary type (8
bit, for true binary/executable data).  Then you need to have the file sent to
you.  The "get" command transfers a file from the ftp site to you.

In this example we will now transfer the software for ZIICS, a graphical
interface that runs under DOS on PC's.  The file name for ZIICS is
"ziics121.exe".  Here is what you would need to type:
 
  binary
  get ziics121.exe

If you are done and do not wish to transfer any other files, type "quit" and
you will exit from ftp.

  quit

If you have a direct internet connection using PPP/SLIP, the file should now
be in your computer directory and you are ready to work on it. 

If yuo do not have a direct connection, what you need to do is transfer the
file from your computer host to your local PC or workstation.  This is done
most commonly with "kermit" or "zmodem".  Check around locally for what is
available and works best on your system.  After using kermit or zmodem, the
file should then be in your directory for you to work on.


FOR FURTHER ASSISTANCE

Channel 1 is a great place to get help from people on-line at this chess
server.  They can help you work through each of these steps.  You should also
read the special help files for interfaces and timeseal; they have further
details specific to those kinds of files.  And you can also contact the server
admins for help.

See also:  admins  addresses  chan_1  inetchesslib  interfaces  timeseal

[Last modified: September 9, 1995 -- Friar]

