
intro_general

GENERAL INFORMATION

  The internet has great capabilities for connecting people from all over the
world.  This chess server is one way for networking individuals who enjoy
chess.  Other chess servers (at least those we know about) are listed in the
"addresses" file.  Among other things, a chess server allows users to play
chess matches against each other, as well as communicate with each other.  The
chess server (computer) is programmed to send players' chess moves and
messages to the right users.  It also keeps track of various information.

  In order to use the features, you need to type various commands.  In
general, commands do one of four things: (a) help you play a chess match (see
intro_playing), (b) send a message to one or more users (see intro_talking),
(c) display information to you (see intro_information), (d) modify one of your
settings, variables or notes (see intro_settings), or (e) have the server
perform a special function (see intro_special).

  Certain commands are restricted to server administrators ("admins") and
cannot be used by regular users.  Some features are only available for
registered users.  Only registered users can have rated chess games, have
games stored after adjournment, have "finger" notes, and communicate using
"shout", "kibitz" and "message" (see "intro_talking" help file).  If you
intend to visit the server often, you will enjoy your visit more as a
registered user.  Registration on this server is by email; type "help
register" to learn the procedure.

  New users might want to start off with simple features and gradually learn
about the other functions as they go along.  To get a description of a
particular command, type "help [command]" -- without the square brackets, of
course.  For example, "help match" will give you information about the "match"
command.  NOTE: you do not have to type the entire command in order to use it
or read its help file; typing the first few letters will work in most cases.

See Also:  addresses  adm_info  finger  intro_basics  intro_information 
intro_settings  intro_special  intro_talking  notes  register

[Last modified: September 28, 1995 -- Friar]

