
teamgames

  A team game is a game played between two teams, each consisting of more than
one player.  It is also possible to have a team playing against one person or
a computer.  The procedures are simple: (a) set up the teams, (b) appoint one
person from each team as captain, (c) have the two captains match each other
using very long time controls, usually unrated, (d) have two separate channels
for the teams to use for their consultations, (e) have team members observe
the game and consult about moves, (f) have the captain play the move for
his/her team ... and play continues along those lines.

  To start a team game, it is best to have the players use three channels.  At
the moment Channels 20, 21 and 22 are primarily for this purpose.  To start
with, all the participants turn on one channel (Channel 20) to enable
communication about team formation.  The other two channels are for the two
teams.  Players of one team turn on the their channel but not the other.  Then
the players on each team select a captain.

  Actually, there are many ways to form teams.  One way is to let the players
join a channel randomly, another is to agree to two captains first and let
them pick their teams in turn.  There is no set rule that must be followed.

  A game is started by the two captains playing each other.  Then every
participant observes that game.  Players can suggest moves using the
appropriate channels.  They can adopt a democracy and vote before making
moves, or they can opt for dictatorship where the captain can decide on the
move, taking advice from the think tank.  Any form of decision making is
possible, provided the team has agreed to it beforehand.

  Typically, it takes much longer to play a team game than a game between
individuals, because a lot of discussion is going on.  Hence a longer time
control and longer increment are recommended.  Several minutes per move is not
uncommon -- and even that time can go quickly.


WHY TEAM GAMES?

  Playing team games is a good way to learn because you are involved in a
position and can hear different views on it.  Some people play mainly
positionally and some prefer sharp combinations.  It is enlightening to see
how widely different analyses can come out from the same position.  Moreover,
you can learn more about openings with which you are unfamiliar.

  Team games are also fun.  During the consultation, it is typical that
players talk and make jokes.  It helps develop friendly relationships among
users.  In fact, even the process of forming teams can be fun.

REMEMBER: Chess on this server is for fun.  So please don't flame.  Sometimes 
even a team can overlook something and play a bad move. In that case, just
take it easy. Try to work as a team and fight back from behind.  Bitter words
do nobody any good.

See also:  channel  observe  tell

[Last modified: June 20, 1995 -- Friar]

