
USCF FAQ 
"Frequently Asked Questions About the United States Chess Federation"
  
NOTE:  FICS is not affiliated with USCF in any way.  This
help file is intended solely as a public service to FICS users and to
promote chess.  The text was written by FICS users and sanctioned by USCF. 
Neither USCF or FICS take any responsibility for the accuracy of the
information contained in this file.  

--> What is USCF? 

    USCF stands for the United States Chess Federation.  USCF is the
national chess organization for the United States.  Its purpose is to
promote chess (see the USCF Mission Statement in another FICS help file,
"uscf_mis").  USCF sponsors various kinds of chess tournaments, promotes
chess in public schools and prisons, represents US interests in
international chess organizations, and offers discounts on chess books and
equipment.  USCF is composed of over 82,000 individual members and 2100
local and state organizations (known as "affiliates").  

--> Are there other national chess organizations? 

    Yes.  USCF is the main organization for over-the-board (OTB) play. 
They also sponsor correspondence ("postal") chess and Quick Chess (games
with faster time controls) but other organizations have national
importance in these two areas as well.  Information about these other
organizations may be placed on FICS at a later date.  

--> What are the benefits for joining USCF? 

    Well, every member has a different reason for joining.  The benefits
of membership include: 

    *   Chance to play in numerous chess tournaments and have national
        ratings in OTB and postal chess
    *   Cash prizes in tournaments
    *   A monthly magazine, "Chess Life" ("SchoolMates" for younger
        members). 
    *   Discounts for chess equipment and books.  

--> Tell me about the tournaments.
 
    There are two main groups: Over-the-board (OTB) and Postal.  In OTB
tournaments you play against other opponents face-to-face.  In Postal
tournaments you play by mail and exchange moves, usually on postcards. 
Membership is necessary to play in a USCF tournament (there are some
exceptions, but these are rare) and entry fees are charged.  A complete
listing of upcoming OTB tournaments all across the United States should be
available on FICS sometime in July.  

--> What are OTB tournaments like? 

    Most tournaments take one or two days over the weekend for maybe half
a dozen games, though major national tournaments may last a week or two
and involve many games.  A tournament may have anywhere from a dozen to
600 or even a thousand players. 
    Tournaments generally have different playing "sections" or groups of
players based on their national ratings.  You only play opponents within
your own section.  For example, a large tournament might have these five
sections:  Open, U2000, U1600, U1200, and Scholastic.  Any USCF member can
play in the Open section, only those with a USCF rating under 2000 can
play in U2000, only those below 1600 can play in the U1600 section, only
those below 1200 can play in U1200 and only high school or younger
students can play in the Scholastic.  (A high school student with a USCF
rating of 1300, for example, could choose to play in the Open, U2000,
U1600 or Scholastic sections, but not in U1200.) The different sections
allow players of similar strength to compete for prizes. 
    Tournament games can last anywhere from one or two hours up to four or
five hours, depending on the time control of the tournament.  There are
some Quick Chess tournaments with time controls of only 10 or 30 minutes
per player per game.  Tournament time controls are very different than
those used on FICS, so learn the details before playing in a tournament. 
    Tournaments generally offer cash prizes (!!), with the exception being
the Scholastic tournaments which prefer to give out trophies instead. 
Most tournaments offer prizes within each section (1st, 2nd and 3rd for
example) as well as other prizes by ratings categories (for example, the
U2000 section may have a prize for the best scoring U1800 player). 
     Chess tournaments, organized by the local USCF affiliates (especially
state organizations and clubs) are held weekly all across the United
States.  Each tournament varies considerably in style, size, prize fund
and difficulty.  Information about USCF sanctioned tournaments is printed
monthly in "Chess Life."  We also hope to make such information available
on FICS.  We suggest you visit a tournament in your local area and catch
the excitement!  

--> What if I want to play in an OTB tournament but never have before? 

    If you're unsure how tournaments run, it may be helpful to visit one
or two before playing.  Almost all tournaments allow and encourage
spectators. 
    You need to become aware of tournament rules and etiquette.  If you
are in a tournament you will need to know when the rounds start, where the
pairings (lists of who plays who) are posted, how to find your opponent,
where to mark the result of your game, what the time controls are, how to
use a chess clock, how to take notation (it is usually required to record
the moves of your games), etc. 
    Most tournaments require that you bring your own equipment, but don't
worry if you don't have a regulation set and clock.  Most of your
opponents will, and there should be unused sets you can borrow any given
round.  If you decide to play in more tournaments, you really should
acquire regulation equipment.
    All of this can seem very intimidating to a new player, but if you
show up early, you should have plenty of time to ask the tournament
director, or other players, to explain the whole process.  It may be
helpful to obtain a copy of the US Chess Federation's Official Rules of
Chess (4th ed) (available from USCF).
    For your first tournament, either mail your entry fee in advance or
pay it in person at the tournament site.  In either case, get there early
to familiarize yourself with the rooms, the tournament organizers, and
have a chance to ask questions.
    Lastly, remember to just have fun and play some good chess.  Most
people do not score very well in their first tournament, but some do win
prizes (larger tournaments generally offer a few prizes for unrated
players).

--> What's postal chess all about? 

    Basically, you play by mail.  Your opponent could be from anywhere in
the United States, or even overseas.  Generally, you play against
opponents in a small section (4-7 players) with roughly your same level of
ability, though there are also Open tournaments.  Each player is required
to make a certain number of moves in a 30-day period (not including the
time it takes for the mail to get through).  In examining your next move,
you may consult with books and articles and take notes, but you may not
have computers or humans analyze your games while they are in progress. 
Each game may take as long as a year, sometimes longer, but you play
several games simultaneously.  You can even have rated matches against
opponents of your own choosing.  Some tournaments offer cash prizes;
others offer certificates to the section winners.  Information about
postal chess is given each month in "Chess Life."
    Many people who are too busy to play OTB tournaments regularly, or
even at all, find that postal chess matches their schedules perfectly. 
They can analyze moves during lunch, in the evenings, stalled on the
highway during rush hour, or whenever they have a few minutes free.  The
time controls mean a move need not be sent off the day after it is
received, and the players can therefore analyze positions at their
leisure.  

--> Tell me more about "Chess Life"? 

    "Chess Life" is USCF's official magazine.  It has numerous articles
for players of all abilities, quizzes, ways to test your abilities,
annotated games from recent tournaments across the world, stories on chess
personalities and chess-related news.  "Chess Life" prints advance
information on many upcoming chess tournaments in the US as well as postal
chess.  It also has catalog supplements several times each year with
information on discounts on chess-related products, including books,
pieces, boards, computers and computer software.  Companies selling chess
productes often advertise in "Chess Life" as well.  

--> Tell me more about the affiliates? 

    An affiliate is simply a local chess club associated with USCF. 
Almost every major city in the United States has an affiliate.  Many
universities and other organizations sponsor one as well.  Currently there
are just over 2000 affiliates scattered across the nation. 
    Each club is different, but most generally hold informal meetings a
few times per month, where the club members can get together and play
games, discuss openings, study grandmaster games, eat doughnuts, or
whatever.  Clubs are a great way to become involved in chess, and you
normally do not need a USCF membership to join one. 
    Affiliates often sponsor USCF tournaments, some of which are open only
to the club's members.  This depends on each individual affiliate, though. 
    You can write to USCF at the address below and request a list of
affiliates in your area.  

--> Where do I get more information on USCF? 

    Well, "Dogma" on FICS would be more than willing to talk to you about
USCF and playing in a tournament.  There are other USCFers on FICS, too,
and you can ask them for their opinions.  You can also go directy to the
source and call USCF at ... 1-800-388-KING ... and ask them to send you
membership information, etc. 
    USCF provides free pamphlets on a variety of subjects, available on
request.  These include, but are not limited to, pamphlets describing the
rules, how to take notation, what constitutes official equipment, etc. 
Call or write USCF for more information.  

--> How do I become a USCF member? 

    There are several ways.  You can join at virtually any tournament,
call the above phone number and pay with a credit card, or send your
membership fee directly to USCF at: 
    186 Route 9W
    New Windsor, NY 12553
    It may be possible to obtain a slight discount by buying your USCF
membership through an affiliate, or as part of tournament registration
fees;  however, this depends on each individual affiliate and tournament. 

--> What is the membership fee? 

    The regular, one year membership fee is $40, of which $21 is the 
subscription to "Chess Life".  Youth memberships (age 19 and under) cost 
$15 for one year.  Senior memberships (65 and older) are $30 per year.
    Scholastic memberships cost $10 per year (generally for elementary
students, but available for age 19 and under).  A scholastic membership is not
necessary to play in scholastic tournaments; a youth membership would work
just as well.  However, Scholastic membership receive "School Mates", a
bi-monthly magazine for the beginning player, rather than the monthly "Chess
Life".
    All of the above membership types receive full membership benefits,
including "Chess Life".  Again, the major difference between "Youth" members
and "Scholastic" members is that youth members receive "Chess Life" while
scholastic members receive "School Mates".
    Discounts are available for junior, family, blind, and prison memberships. 
Discounts are also given for longer memberships (for example a two-year
membership); life memberships are also available.

--> Is USCF membership worth it? 

     If you are an avid chess player who wants to play in tournaments and
have national ratings for OTB and/or postal chess, wants to keep up on the
chess scene, or just wants to help promote chess in the United States, the
answer is ... YES!!!  Whether you have time for tournament chess, postal
or both, a membership in USCF helps make you a stronger chess player while
also bringing you into contact with other chess players world-wide.  You
can play chess all your life, with family, friends, and fellow tournament
players.  Chess is a sport that can give you lifelong satisfaction, and
USCF gives you a great opportunity to learn, play, and make new friends
along the way. :) 
 
