
variables

Usage: variables [user]

  This command will display the variables of the given user.  If no user is
given then your variable settings will be displayed.  Here are the variables
that will be displayed.

VARIABLE INFORMATION

  Name        Function
  ----        --------
  automail    If non-zero, the moves of your games will be mailed to you
              upon completion; your e-mail address will be used (make sure it
              is correct; if not, contact an admin).
  bell        If non-zero, a ^G or bell will be sent when a board update
              is done.  In most cases, you will hear a beep.
  cshout      If non-zero, you will hear cshouts.  If zero, you will not.
  f1-f9       Special variables for the formula.
  flip        If is non-zero, rotates the board the opposite way (for
              example, instead of White at the bottom, Black will be at the
              bottom).
  formula     The formula used to filter match requests, that is, decline
              them automatically.
  gin         If non-zero, you will be notified when games begin or end.
  height      Sets the number of lines of text you will receive before a
              [next] break occurs; usually the screen height.
  highlight   If non-zero, player's names who tell you stuff will be
              highlighted.
  jprivate    If non-zero, the user's journal cannot be read by others.  If
              zero, it is open to be read by other users.
  kibitz      If non-zero, you will hear kibitz's from observers of your
              games.
  kiblevel    Limits kibitzes and whispers you will receive to users who have
              the given rating or higher.  Value is reset to 0 when you
              logout.
  language    Selects a help file in this language, if available.  The default
              is English.  Spanish is also available.
  mailmess    If non-zero, messages to you will be mailed to your e-mail
              address automatically.
  notifiedby  If non-zero, you will be notified by the server when users
              having you on their notify lists log on/off.  If zero, you will
              not receive such notifications.  Use of notifiedby can cut down
              on the size of notify lists (see "notify" help file for
              details).
  open        If non-zero, you are willing to accept match requests.  If
              zero, you will not receive match requests.
  pin         If non-zero, you will be informed when any user connects to or
              disconnects from the server.
  pgn         If non-zero, mails games to you in PGN format.  If zero,
              regular, column format will be used.
  private     If non-zero, then all games you play will be private regardless
              of your opponent's 'private' variable; no observers will be
              permitted.
  prompt      This string will be your prompt.  Use 'set prompt' to restore
              the system default.  (Caution: some graphics interfaces may need
              certain prompts in order to work correctly.)
  rated       If zero, your game will not be rated.
              If non-zero, and all of these conditions hold, then your game
              will be rated:
                1: Your opponent's rated variable is non-zero
                2: The time controls for the game qualify as a rated game
                3: There are no time-odds
                4: The game started position is standard.
  ropen       If zero, you will only be open to match requests from users who
              have the same setting for "rated".  If non-zero, you will
              receive other requests as well.
  shout       If non-zero, you will hear shouts.  If zero, you will not.
  simopen     If non-zero, you are willing to accept simul requests. This
              variable is always set to 0 when you log in.
  style       The style of board to use.
  tell        If non-zero, you will hear tell's and say's from unregistered
              users.  If zero, you will not.
  width       Sets the width of your display (from 32 to 240).
  1-10        This sets your information that is displayed when someone
              fingers you.  You can set these 'notes' to an arbitrary string
              of length 100.  You can display information in ten slots,
              numbered 1-10.

See Also:  bell  cshout  finger  flip  formula  highlight  journal  kibitz 
kiblevel  notes  private  set  shout  simuls  style  tell

[Last modified: December 25, 1995 -- Friar]

