FICS bugs as of 7/22/95:

The bugs followed by a (?) are not verified.  They could be caused
by some operator error or other anomoly.  After verification by a 
few admins that they do not exist, they will be removed from the list.

FIXED  If you are observing a game and type moves it says that you are
	not playing, observing, or examining a game.

2.  The ratings system needs to be verified for accuracy.  Several
	people have reported discrepencies. (E.g. According to the
	formulas, RD can increase only due to the passage of time,
	never because of playing a game.  Yet sometimes people who
	have just played play again and their RD increases.  According
	to Glickman, this must be a bug.  (Courtesy fritzl))

3.  Draw by repetition being claim even though a position only came up
	on time. (?)

FIXED  Some people stay logged into channels and notify lists even though
	they are not logged in.

FIXED  Private games can be watched by repeated typing refresh.

6.  When challanged to a wild 5 game, after accepting, it becomes a
	wild 0 game. Reported several times.  (?)

7.  An ambiguity in the move list occurs when two rooks can capture on 
	the same square. (?)

8.  The width variable is not considered in who. Some reports even say
	that it is not considered at all.

9.  History recognizes a stalemate as a win for the person who stalemated. (?)

10.  When you want to log in as an unregistered user, if you first choose
	a handle which is already registered, the server tells you to hit
	return and try again.  But it doesn't let you try again!  It 
	disconnects you instead.

11.  When loading a 2 12 rated game on move 19, an unrated untimed game
	on move 1 comes up. (?)

FIXED  Even if kibitz is set to 0, you still hear kibitzes.

13.  The time and date that is sent with mailmoves is wrong. (?)

FIXED  When you offer an abort, your opponent is not told to type abort
	to accept.

15.  Unregistered players can set stats and make notify lists and keep
	a history, from login to login!

16.  Before the game the server reports "your new RD is x."  However, after
	the game, x does not correspond with your new RD.

17.  When someone makes the move "bc3" the server needs to check for Bishop
	captures c3 or Pawn captures c3.

FIXED  Wins can be awarded on time even if there are no pieces left. (?)

19.  There are discrepencies in the 'assess' command's predictions. (?)

FIXED  Wild5 reverses the players ratings in the match challenge. (?)
	(Has been report for other games too.)

21.  After mailing old moves, the server claims "No such game," but it
	still mails the moves. (?)

22.  Someone sends a draw offer and then they move, which causes the
	server to decline the draw.  Then the person types decline
	and it sends another draw offer. (?)  

23.  When a player has two adjourned games, the 'accept' command tried to
	load the other.  The players are unable to play each other.  (See
	pdeck Jun 7) (?)

24.  A player cannot play 0 8 (or any other increment) because it parses as
	untimed.  (?)

25.  When a player is challenged to a normal match, and then a wild match by
	a different person, if the normal game is accepted, the game becomes
	a wild match with the person who challenged to the normal game. (?)

26.  If a player has been idle for example for 2:30 (2 hours 30 minutes), 
	when someone tells something to that person it says the player has
	been idle for only 30 minutes (not 2:30).

FIXED  If you do 'sa' for say, it tries to simabort instead.

28.  With auto=1, drawn games are not sent. (?)

[Last Modified:  July 22, 1995 -- Marsalis]


